---
layout: post
title:  "Candidate Statement: Aaron Hall"
date:   2018-04-10 14:00:00 -0700
---

I am excited to be officially announcing my candidacy for the Steering Committee elections this month for a position as an at-large member. I am part of the Open EBDSA micro-slate with Dominic Dagradi.

I came to EBDSA in August of last year as a result of my experiences organizing my workplace to unionize over the preceding two years. In that time, through much difficult learning by experience and study, I was able to build coworkers’ confidence, identify organic leaders, form and lead an organizing committee, get supermajority participation rates in all actions, build city and county political support, form a bargaining committee, and get consensus on a whole host of issues important to my coworkers and myself as a collective unit.

I took away two keys things from my time. One, a constant two-way flow of information is key to the strength and health of any organization. This involved not only explaining ideas for prospective action to get buy-in and communicating all important news about meetings, talks, worker support, and management activity but also actively soliciting input at every step of the way and modifying action to incorporate that input. And two, as a result of successful direct collective confrontations with the boss, I realized both intellectually and very viscerally, that another world is possible, that there is truly power in numbers, and that our manifestation of that was only but a tiny sliver of the power possible when working people band together for their own betterment. We were only successful though because we had cultivated meaningful relationships based on mutual respect, trust, and recognized common interest.

Due to my experience organizing my workplace, I regained a sense of political optimism and joined DSA. Coworkers are just comrades by a different name and I believe the lessons I learned ring true for working in any democratic organization. As such, I have tried my best to apply these lessons to the political organizing in which I have been engaged in our chapter.

Since joining DSA I have been involved in a variety of projects. I was part of a group that developed member interest and pushed for regular general membership meetings -- something which was not occuring when I joined. As a result of this activity, we now have regular general membership meetings. I now help plan and organize logistics, volunteer recruitment, and other aspects of their general implementation.

I have also helped organize and been a part of one of the Oakland neighborhood canvasses in which I learned further how to step outside of my comfort zone and knock on strangers’ doors to get them involved in the fight for single-payer and socialism. Thanks to my involvement in the neighborhood canvasses, I was able to help introduce and lead new canvassers and recruits to socialism in the January Big Canvass as a canvass captain.

The last activity I will mention that I have been involved in, and for me is my priority interest in EBDSA, is helping to get the new labor team -- now, after the bylaw revisions, a subcommittee -- off the ground. To-date, this has been the most demanding activity I have been a part of but no less rewarding than the other areas of work I have done. In December and January, I, along with a group of dedicated, experienced labor activists of every stripe and rank, put together a scholarship fundraiser for the bi-annual Labor Notes Conference in Chicago so that labor activists and those interested in labor in the Bay could receive financial aid in funding their travel there. In fact, this is currently where I am typing this statement from -- run ragged on the frenzy of activity over the past few days, but incredibly grateful for the wealth of knowledge shared and relationships formed. It reinforces my drive to not only work to open up the stagnant structures of my union that discourage member engagement and activity and thus diminish the strength of the workers to fight against the bosses for their material needs, but also has reinforced my conviction that labor needs socialism and socialism needs labor.

DSA can play a crucial role in helping workers to push off the increasingly heavy yoke of workplace exploitation and to tear off the chains of status quo business unionism. I feel strongly that our chapter can play a part in this by educating our members and the public on unions’ role in achieving a just, egalitarian society; by aiding in rank-and-filers’ and unions’ workplace struggles to the extent possible in order to establish and nurture a cross-union network of militants who have a home in our chapter based on a shared vision of a transformed society; and perhaps most importantly by creating and providing training to members and interested community members on the often hard-to-find information of the nuts and bolts of workplace organizing. All of this should of course be underscored by explicitly making the connections to show how capital fosters and exploits divisions of race, sexuality, gender, age, ability, ethnicity, and nationality in order to reap profits.

Labor is an essential part of a socialist strategy. But economic struggles in and of themselves do not necessarily equate to socialism. For this reason, I am a strong supporter of our Socialist School and the many-sided analysis and discussion this provides to first-timers and leftie veterans alike in developing a holistic worldview that seeks to understand all instances of oppression and exploitation under the blind forces of capitalism. Without this, we ourselves remain blind and desperately reach out and cling to the first life preserver that comes our way in the stormy seas of capitalism. A life preserver can help carry an individual to solid land but it is not a replacement for the land itself.

However, this is not to support ideological arrogance or homogeneity. None of us have led the socialist revolution, let alone led the creation of a mass party or organization before. As such, though each of us may have our ideas, none of us know the exact particular road we must take to achieve socialism. We should remain humble in our endeavors to make the world a better place as lifelong students of socialism. Some of our ideas will work, others will not -- we will learn by experience. Our chapter must encourage experimentation inside and outside the purview of official leadership. We must adopt measures that counteract the contemporary insularity and sectarianism of the Left but we must also resist tendencies that contribute towards a monocultural homogeneity. Our organization right now is like a tender bud that has only just pierced through the fertile soil, the possibility of its life still uncertain. If we are too cold in our relations, in our criticisms, we do not even permit the possibility for life to develop. If we are too hot in temper and in zeal, we will prematurely wilt, snuff out and cut short our organization’s life for we have not yet matured to a fully developed organism that has developed adequate protective and supportive structures with deep roots. Let us cultivate and nurture our bud so that it may grow into a stalk and from that stalk to a stem and then to a plant and from a plant to a tree.

If elected, I will continue to build our ties with and activities in labor, extend our leadership development into new groupings of members, create and expand our channels of communication, fight for political experimentation while maintaining organizational unity and purpose. Together, this will all serve to broaden our base in a diverse working class and to develop the institutional knowledge and and experience necessary for the formation of an independent mass political party.
