---
layout: post
title:  "Candidate Statement: Dominic Dagradi"
date:   2018-04-16 12:00:00 -0700
---

Hi there 👋 I'm excited to be running for Communications Secretary of the East Bay DSA Steering Committee. I'm an appointed external organizer in EBDSA working on our single-payer and electoral campaigns, and work as a software engineer during the day. I’m running on the Open EBDSA (openEBDSA.org) micro-slate with Aaron Hall, and I'd love to share a little about my vision for our chapter in the coming year.

Early in February 2017, I was invited to a big, single-payer canvass by a coworker, and left transformed by the experience. Diving into DSA head first, I immediately pitched in building our website and email templates with the old Communications Committee. Today, I’m a neighborhood leader in South Berkeley organizing canvasses and events, as well as the moderator of our Facebook group. I also support other organizers’ projects as a technical advisor and/or implementer, such as the recent member census. All of this work has helped East Bay DSA to grow to over 1000 members today.

As much success as we've had, I see even greater potential for the future of East Bay DSA. To achieve our goals, we must build a mass base with the working class in the East Bay, but so far our political organization has focused on a narrow band of activities. Our thousand-strong membership is largely disengaged and that leaves a great deal of capacity yet untapped. With every member who joins EBDSA, we get not only a new comrade but a whole new set of ideas. We get an opportunity to weave new strategies and ideas into our work, and grow stronger by adding their excitement and passion to our own collective will. Our membership is our greatest resource, and yet we leave those fields fallow. Changing this requires two additions to our structural foundation: channels for our members to connect with each other and with leadership, and space for our membership to meet and organize around issues important to them.

I've heard from many that there is a hunger for a place to connect online and get involved in our work more easily. I led development of a discussion forum that was shelved at the end of last year by the Local Council and Internal Organizers, instead keeping our anemic Facebook group with the overwhelming sentiment that we should eventually shut that down too. It certainly is time to abandon our Facebook members group, which has few engaged members left and encourages algorithm-aided factioning and strife that hurts our chapter, but the solution is more communication, not less. I know that we, as a chapter, are more than ready to move to an open, online forum that is democratic and fair, encourages debate to flourish, and allows open, respectful discussion. We need an enforceable code of conduct that can help guide the tenor of our discourse, and steers us away from toxicity. The advantages of such a digital town square aren’t limited to just current membership. In this space, members will more easily find ways to join our existing campaigns, and connect with other members with similar interests, and grow their political expertise.

Digital communication is hugely important and it’s changed our world, but offline, in-person connection is equally important to maturing as an organization, and in service of that I believe our chapter should have monthly general meetings. While our existing meetings are a good start, their infrequency and unpredictability means that we spend significant resources on logistics and turnout every month. Thus far, coming together has been a weighty affair that is fully scheduled each time, starving membership of its democratic right to make its voice heard with no room on a packed agenda. Moving to a set schedule of regular meetings will allow members to more easily plan their schedule around it, and allows our organizers to spend less time securing venues and doing turnout for meetings members already know about. More frequent meetings mean we can make decisions more quickly and spend more time discussing important issues face-to-face. We can lower the stakes for any individual decision when it can be revisited within a month, rather than having to wait another 2-4 months to resolve outstanding questions.

As Communications Secretary, I will be dedicated to building structures that will help membership exert its political will more frequently and with greater confidence. My skills and experience organizing in EBDSA and as a software engineer set me up to tackle these large problems from a unique and practical perspective that protects member privacy and safety while expanding our ability to communicate with each other. Beyond the creation of an online forum and monthly general meetings, I feel strongly that we should revive the Communications Committee, and focus on bringing a razor-sharp message and analysis to our communities about the struggles we face as working class people, how taking action collectively is the only way to solve our collective problems, and why socialism is the only way out of the dead end abyss of capitalism. This necessitates creating new propaganda, figuring out how to work with press more closely, and coordinating campaigns across our public platforms. We need systems to involve new members in the organization through targeted communication and dedicated space online and at meetings for new folks to get their questions answered. Defining the boundaries of this role through the year will be an ongoing process, and I look forward to doing so with the input of membership and leadership.

I have a deep conviction that we're still figuring this organization out, and every member has a part to play in that journey. I believe in giving a fair platform to ideas that don't yet have majority support and letting the membership decide whether or not to pursue them. The campaigns and tactics that build power in the East Bay are going to come from unexpected places and communities we haven’t engaged with yet. It’s our duty as socialists to create a structure and organization that invites the working class in, lets their voice be heard, and organizes them into a cohesive class that is too strong to be divided by capitalism.

Your comrade,<br>
Dom
